---
title: A Dynamic Mineral Combinations
date: 2022-09-14T18:39:21.291Z
image: /img/uploads/e8532bc8-c2c9-48eb-a7ab-00161b0b58bf.jpeg
tags:
  - calcium potassium magnesium vitaminD combinationoffood
categories:
  - HealthyEating
---
            The word has been out for quite some time that eating combinations of foods can improve weight loss endeavors and nutritional absorption.  People like Suzanne Somers who was an actress in the show Three’s Company in the 1970’s & 1980’s- authored books about her own journey of weight loss and healthful eating talking about the importance of food combinations.  Yes! She is still very much alive, a cancer survivor, and enjoying a full ACTIVE life with her husband to this day.  A true attestation to healthful living.  So, you can imagine how she has become quite the spokesperson for healthy living and alternative medicine.

 However, what concerns me as a mother, as a teacher, and as a Health & Wellness Coach, in all my years seeing various traditional medical practitioners and holistic practitioners is that at times supplements are still pushed on us.  Sure, if you are severely deficient, your doctor might suggest certain supplements.  Remember, this though, that doctors may not necessarily be well-versed in nutrition.  That is only a small portion of their training unless they decide to extend their education in that realm.  That’s why we have nutritionists, dieticians, and health coaches to help educate patients and clients about these things.  How important it is to educate ourselves by reaching out to these resources to find what is most healthful for you personally or for your family, for your children.  We want our children to grow up with healthy bones, live into their old age with all their teeth intact, and with a strong mind and body.               

In my day, Calcium, and Vit. D were all the rage and that’s why they supplemented milk with Vit. D even though your body produces it on its own when you get out in the sun and has difficulty absorbing it otherwise.  Just like many plants need sun to grow, so does the human species as well.  However, we didn’t learn in 7th grade health class that it was important for Calcium to be consumed with its other Musketeers, magnesium, and potassium. 

            I didn’t learn this until I was in my mid 30’s.  My trusted and long-time practicing OBGYN (he delivered me and my children right here in my hometown) would preach to me all the time how important it was for me to take a calcium supplement.  He specifically told me initially that I should take a certain brand, but I didn’t know why.  I went with the more affordable brand of course because I was always looking to save a few bucks being a single parent.  I did follow through with taking a calcium supplement because I knew that after the age of 30, I was losing a lot of things and not just muscle mass each week.  Healthy women loose about 1% of bone mass each week after approximately the age of 35.  I didn’t want to eventually experience the broken bones and HUNCH WALK in which the curvature of my back would eventually be permanently curved, and I would grow inches shorter as I got older.  I could only imagine what pain and restrictions that would put on me to physically do things on my own. 

About a year later, I was hired at a school district that had a type of Community Health Day for their employees where vendors from various areas of the local hospital came along with others providing life insurance, gym memberships, etc.. . I was able to get my calcium levels checked.  Awesome!  I was expecting a good report since I had been taking my calcium supplement faithfully for almost 10 months at that point and getting better at eating a healthy diet despite my hectic schedule as a working mom of two beautiful girls.  When the nurse handed me the paperwork with the numbers, she explained to me that I had osteopenia.  This is like a pre-osteoperosis.  I was SHOCKED! I had been taking my calcium supplement and I was doing fairly well with eating healthy amidst all of my motherly duties and getting over a divorce from a traumatic marriage.  I couldn’t believe it!  I was at a loss of words and didn’t understand what was going on.

About a year after that I started seeing a local integrated practitioner that I knew because she had just retired from teaching at the school that I had been working for.  I made an appointment for my daughter initially, but I found it so helpful for myself.  She pretty much took us under her wing.  She was amazing.  She was the one who simply educated me that IF I am taking the supplement, it should be in combination with magnesium and potassium.  But I thought that it was Vit. D that I needed to take with Calcium.  Boy did she set me straight about Vit. D.  Unless I was sick, I should be getting all my Vit. D from the sun because that’s the Vit. D my body can use most efficiently.  AND the reason my calcium came up low in the screening I took a year before, was because the calcium was being kicked out of my bones.   I wasn’t taking it in combination with the minerals that would help its absorption into my body.  WOW!  How simple!  I wish I would’ve known that.  Now if I would’ve gotten the brand my OBGYN told me to get in the first place, it would’ve helped and not hindered me, because it did have Calcium and its other Musketeers, Magnesium, and Potassium. 

 So, to make this long story short, it is so important to make sure that we understand the combination of foods we are eating and the nutrients they hold.  In this case, Calcium, Potassium, and Magnesium should be consumed together.  And yes-- it is best to consume them through food, not supplements.  OH, and get out in the sun more and do activities outside so your body can produce the Vit. D.    However, if your doctor tells you that you are deficient and need supplementation, do the research.  Find out which supplements are produced to easily absorb into your system to be used in the manner they are needed by your body.  The whole idea is to become healthier, not damage your body and get sicker and weaker.  The goal is to Thrive in Vitality.